---
title: What we do
---

At our core, we're a full-service eCommerce agency with its own product. We didn't really choose
this industry—rather, the industry chose us, and it's been an amazing journey. Over the years, we've
developed a deep expertise in what it takes for an eCommerce brand to succeed, and we're proud to
put that knowledge at work for our clients.

## We launch eCommerce brands

The majority of our work is eCommerce consulting—we handle a wide range of strategy-, design- and
engineering-related services. On the engineering side, we typically work with
[Solidus](#we-build-an-ecommerce-framework), [Shopify](https://shopify.com) and
[Shopify Plus](https://shopify.com/plus).

We mostly partner with startups operating in the direct-to-consumer (DTC) / digitally-native
vertical brands (DNVBs) spaces. We occasionally work with larger companies and companies in
adjacent industries, when we find alignment and think we can provide value.

Since our inception in 2011, we've had the chance to work with brands such as
[FLOYD](https://floydhome.com), [Maisonette](https://www.maisonette.com),
[MeUndies](https://meundies.com), [Cometeer](https://cometeer.com) and
[Framework](https://frame.work), just to name a few.

With most of our partners, we have long-running relationships that span years. In this regard, we're
pretty different from your traditional agency, which tends to come in, work for a few months and
then disappear in a void. Our approach to consulting is holistic: our ultimate goal is for us and
our partners to work together towards a shared vision—an endeavor which requires time and
commitment.

This is also why we pick our partners very carefully: when we kick off an engagement, we know that
we might be working with that client for years, and we want the experience to be amazing for both
parties.

## We build an eCommerce framework

We also maintain a product, [Solidus](https://solidus.io).

Solidus is an open-source eCommerce platform (based on [Ruby on Rails](https://rubyonrails.org)) for
industry trailblazers. Unlike traditional SaaS products, Solidus gives you complete flexibility to
customize _literally_ every single detail of your store, which allows you to do some pretty amazing
stuff.

We didn't originally create Solidus—we inherited it, and we take this responsibility very seriously.
We have an internal team committed to maintaining and evolving the platform for us and for the
community behind it, and we work closely with brands and other Solidus agencies to inform our
roadmap.

Solidus is completely free, and companies that want to adopt it can choose to either work with us or
another Solidus partner, or to build their own development team. Being able to create a "tide that
lifts all boats" and make a living through our open-source work feels great, in addition to being a
lot of fun.
