---
title: Compensation
---

At Nebulab, we hire people all over the world, with no restrictions on geography or nationality. We
have teammates in the US, Brazil, South Africa and Italy, just to name a few. This allows us to tap
into the global talent pool and enrich our team with diverse perspectives.

It's also a policy that has its challenges, the main one being how to compensate people fairly when
they live in countries with wildly different job markets and costs of living. There are typically
two approaches to global compensation:

1. Paying everyone the same salary, no matter where they are located.
2. Adjusting salaries according to the job market or the cost of living.

The proponents of both philosophies will tell you that their way of doing things is the better,
fairer approach. At Nebulab, we've been battling with this problem for a while now, and we came to
the conclusion that there's no one-size-fits-all solution: each company needs to choose its own
compensation strategy in accordance with their business model, values and long-term vision.

In the next paragraphs, we'll explain why **we pay based on the job market.**

## Why we pay based on the job market

In designing our compensation strategy, our main goal was to be able to compensate people fairly and
competitively all over the world, while continuing to scale the company in a sustainable way.
Nebulab has been completely self-funded from day 1, meaning that every decision we make needs to
keep the company successful, healthy and profitable.

Paying everyone the same salary would have prevented us either from hiring teammates in specific
regions (e.g., metropolitan areas in the US/UK), or from keeping the company profitable. Both
outcomes were undesirable for us, since we want to have reasonably few restrictions when it comes
to where we hire from and we _very much_ want to stay in business for the long run.

Moreover, it didn't feel like paying everyone the same salary would be fairer than paying local
salaries: someone who's making $150k/year in [Pescara](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pescara), where
we have one of our offices, can afford a much more luxurious lifestyle than someone who's making the
same salary in San Francisco. We might be paying both people the same money, but it results in two
very different outcomes for them.

This leaves us with the two options of paying employees based on either the cost of living or on the
job market.

Cost of living, unfortunately, is not really an option: it's a flat index that doesn't tell us
whether we're actually competitive when compared to other companies in the same industry. Software
engineering pays higher than most industries in the majority of countries, and it's very difficult
to model this using the cost of living. Furthermore, we found most datasets to be severely outdated
or not granular enough for our use case.

Job market data, on the other hand, is more granular, it's updated often enough for us to stay
competitive with other companies hiring in the same region, and it also allow us to pay everyone
according to the same rules.

This is, by far, one of the most critical decisions we've ever had to make, as it has very practical
consequences for everyone at the company. Still, we feel like we made the best choice based on our
business model and values.

## Compensation reviews

We use [Kamsa](https://www.kamsa.co/) to administer compensation reviews. We commit to reviewing
everyone's compensation package at least once a year, but we may do it more often if market
situations change dramatically and/or we need to adjust the general compensation strategy.

In principle, compensation reviews are a fairly simple thing: we review everyone's compensation
packages and compare them to what they should be. We then use the salary budget for the year to
increase salaries as needed and reduce the gap between the current and the ideal state of things.

There are three main factors that can influence your compensation:

- **Your job title:** if you get a [promotion](/personal-growth/competency-matrix), you will
  (obviously!) get a salary bump. Note that, depending on budget allocation, this might only be a
  partial bump that takes you closer to your target salary.
- **Your performance:** some promotions may take years, but we still want to reward people for
  performing well and living by our [North stars](/about-us/north-stars). If they think you have
  really shined, your manager may decide to bump your salary. 
- **Market data:** if market data tells us that salaries in your region have increased, we'll
  increase your salary accordingly.

Keep in mind is that the adjustments that originate from compensation reviews are based on the
company's current budget and overall compensation strategy: salaries are rarely increased in
one-time bumps, but rather over the course of several compensation reviews.

### Salary decreases and relocations

We never decrease salaries, even in the off chance of a demotion or unfavorable market conditions.
While it seems intuitively fair, decreasing someone's salary may put them in a tough financial
situationâ€”it's simply not worth it, not to mention illegal in some jurisdictions.

Our strategy is to aim for long-term fairness: if you are being paid above the expectations for your
title, market and/or recent performance, we'll simply take that into account in the subsequent
compensation reviews.

One exception to this rule is if someone relocates for the long term. Since this is a deliberate
decision, we'll work with the teammate to design a competitive offer based on their new job market.
If you're thinking about relocating, speak to your manager first to understand how to best approach
the situation.
