---
title: Hiring
---

We are constantly on the lookout for teammates who share our values. For us, hiring people means
enriching the team with new perspectives and empowering it to turn another little piece of its
vision into reality.

We are also mindful that, with each hire we make, we are responsible for providing the new teammate
with an environment that actively contributes to their personal and professional success, as well as
for creating a cohesive and functional team where people complement and augment each other. 

We take these responsibilities very seriously, and we have structured our hiring process to help us
in this endeavor.

## Hiring process

In an ideal world, we would just hire anyone who applies at Nebulab and use the first few months of
work together to understand whether they're actually a good fit, but this is obviously impractical
for a lot of reasons. A well-structured hiring process is the next best way to predict, with
reasonable accuracy, whether someone will succeed at their job.

Our hiring process consists of six steps, and it has been designed with a couple of guiding
principles in mind.

First of all, we want the process to be realistic and accurate—no whiteboard interviews or
algorithms to implement. Every question we ask and every trait we evaluate are factors that we've
seen directly lead people to success at Nebulab. When applying here, we want you to be able to just
bring your authentic best self to the interviews and the tests.

Secondly, we want the process to be light. We're constantly looking for ways to shave a few minutes
off a step or make it asynchronous. We know that applying at a company can be stressful and
time-consuming, and we want to make things as easy as possible and be respectful of the time
candidates are dedicating to us.

These factors need to be kept in balance: make the process too light, and you'll risk making the
wrong hire; make it too accurate, and you'll ask people for too much of their time. We are
constantly iterating on our process to make the experience as pleasant as possible for everyone
involved, by asking candidates for feedback and re-evaluating best practices.

### Step 1: Application

Hi! If you want to work at Nebulab, you can apply through our [Careers](https://nebulab.com/careers)
page.

The application form is short, but you should still complete it thoroughly. In addition to your
contact info, we'll ask you to include your portfolio (GitHub, BitBucket, GitLab, Dribbble or
anything else you might have) and a cover letter.

The cover letter should be short, authentic and relevant—just tell us what excites you about the
company and why you think you might be a good fit! At this stage, we're mostly evaluating your
communication, enthusiasm and experience.

Someone from our team will go through your application and reach out to let you know if you've made
it to the second step, the [initial screen](#step-2-initial-screen).

### Step 2: Initial screen

This is a 30-minute video call where we get to know each other and understand if there's mutual
interest in working together. We mostly avoid formalities, we talk about a bit of everything and see
how we feel about each other.

We'll ask you about your professional experience and what made you apply at Nebulab, and you'll
also get the chance to ask any questions you might have about the company and the work we do. We
will also ask about your salary expectations in order to understand whether they're in line with
what we can offer for your [seniority and location](/people-ops/compensation).

Some advice to succeed in this first step:

* **Come on time.** This is extremely important for us: simply being on time will give you an
  advantage over many candidates.
* **Come equipped.** Make sure you have a good Internet connection, a good headset and a good
  webcam. Also, find a quiet place to call from!
* **Come prepared.** Make sure to have some questions about Nebulab, and that you can talk about
  your professional experience and aspirations.
* **Be yourself.** Try to think, behave and talk as you would do in a real-world environment. This
  stage helps us understand whether Nebulab is right for you, and we can't do that if you pretend to
  be someone else!
* **Relax.** We're all humans and we've all been in your shoes before, so we know how stressful
  interviews can be. If you're nervous, tell your interviewer and they'll do their best to make you
  more comfortable.

A couple of days after call, you'll get an email from your interviewer telling you whether you've
made to the next step, the [aptitude test](#step-3-aptitude-test).

### Step 3: Aptitude test

The aptitude test is a way for us to get to know you better and to understand how you think,
act and communicate in a professional setting. The test is mainly focused on your soft skills, but
there are some basic technical questions as well. The test will be sent to you by email.

The fundamental requirement in answering the test is sincerity: write in accordance with your values
and the way you work, not what you think we would like to hear from you. The purpose of the test is
to understand whether you're a good cultural and technical fit, so it is in everyone's interest that
the answers reflect the way you really work and handle problems.

Don't hesitate to ask clarifications on questions or technical issues in case anything is not clear
to you, and don't be afraid to hit a wrong note: in the past, some of the most striking answers
were completely out of tune, perhaps mentioning aspects outside the work context, but they allowed
us to perfectly understand the person on the other end of the screen.

Two or three days after completing the aptitude test, your interviewer will let you know if you've
made it to the fourth step, the [take-home test](#step-4-take-home-test).

### Step 4: Take-home test

If you have reached this stage, it means we think Nebulab might be the right company for you. At
this point, we want to get an idea of your technical skills. The test will be administered in 
different ways depending on the position you're interviewing for: for technical positions, for
example, we will create a dedicated GitHub repository.

You will not be asked to do any live coding or solve absurd challenges: nobody here solves critical
business problems without asking questions and doing research. Instead, we just want to make sure
that your technical skills are coherent with our general expectations for your role. For engineers,
the take-home test consists of two or three projects of increasing complexity.

Within two/three days, your hiring manager will review your submission, and they might ask some
follow-up questions, e.g. to better understand the rationale behind your choices.

Once they have all the context they need, your hiring manager will let you know if you've made it to
the fifth step, the [pre-offer interview](#step-5-pre-offer-interview).

### Step 5: Pre-offer interview

This stage consists of a second, longer (~30 minutes) interview with your original hiring manager
plus another one, who didn't follow your hiring process. The second hiring manager will review your
entire application package thoroughly, so that they can prepare some follow-up questions for you.

There's no fixed structure for this call: it mostly depends on what questions the hiring managers
still have for you and what final doubts they want to clear up. You might be asked technical
questions, or to go into the details of your professional experience, but you will not have to solve
any technical problems.

You will also get the chance to ask any last-minute questions about Nebulab, if you have them!

Congrats: this was the last real step of the process! A couple of days after the interview, your
original hiring manager will notify you and let you know if you'll be getting an
[offer](#step-6-offer)!

### Step 6: Offer

Congratulations, you made it! Thanks for the time you spent with us so far.

At this point, we'll send over a formal offer which you can sign electronically. Feel free to ask
your hiring manger any questions about the offer, and they'll either answer directly or put you in
touch with someone from Finance who can handle all your doubts.

Once we agree on a start date and you sign the offer, we'll begin the onboarding process.

Welcome to Nebulab!

## Joining as an apprentice

Sometimes, we talk to promising candidates who are not ready for a professional work environment
yet. When this happens, and we have enough bandwidth, we may offer the candidate a full-time, paid
position in our [Apprenticeship Program](/personal-growth/apprenticeship-program). This will
eventually turn into a permanent full-time position if the candidate successfully graduates from the
program.
